# NestJS / pReact / Vite / Fastify

Proof of concept in an attempt to integrate [NestJS](https://nestjs.com), [pReact](https://preactjs.com), [Vite](https://vitejs.dev), and [Fastify](https://fastify.dev).

Ideas :
- Serving React apps from NestjS
- Benefits from SSR for the initial page load and have SEO capabilities
- Hydrate the app in the front-end
- Hot-reload of the UI/JSX in the front-end for improved DX
- Vite for front-end build
- Keeping NestJS infrastructure for serving pages & proposing an API
- Session-based Auth instead of JWTs
- Multiple-Page Apps, no need for a client-side Router
- Works with preact but can actually work with any front-end mechanism (Vue, Svelte, Qwik...)

## How it works

- The `client` folder contains the front-end code
- It is built with Vite
- It's not invoked by any of the `src` code
- The `client` and `src` folder are built using different build tools
- `@fastify/vite` relies on convention, but I believe it can be tweaked

## Getting Started

Simply run `pnpm dev` to start developing.
You can integrate any vite-compliant component in the front-end.
Sass, Stylus, PostCSS, etc.

To render a page, return a `Page` object from the controller.
This will trigger the rendering of the page in the front-end.
This page object can pass props to the front-end.

Run `pnpm build` to build the app and `pnpm start` to start the production server.

## Details

### Setting up Vite

You must register a vite app and create a `vite.config.js` file.
The structure mandate the root of your app to live in a subfolder of the root, such as `client`.

This folder must contain at least three files : 
- A client entry file (for example, `entry-client.ts`) that must be invoked by the `index.html` file
- A server entry file (for example, `entry-server.ts`) that will be invoked by the server app.
- An `index.html` file serving as the template for the app.

### index.html

It must looks like this :

```html 
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
  <title><!-- title --></title>
  <!-- hydration -->
</head>
<body>
<div id="root"><!-- element --></div>
<script type="module" src="/entry-client.ts"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

It contains comments serving as templating points for insertion :
- `title` contains the title of the page as provided by the Route component
- `hydration` contains the data required to hydrate the app
- `element` contains the HTML of the page generated by the server

### Client file

The client file must re-hydrate the app in the front-end.
The data used to generate the HTML on the server is available under `window.__INITIAL_STATE__`.

### Server file

The server file must generate the HTML of the page.
It receives the same props as the front-end, including the `request` and `response` objects.
This file MUST export a `render` method that is expected and will be called by the server to render the page.

### Routing

No routing convention is imposed, you can follow your own routing convention.
In this example we use a folder-based structure à la NextJS.

### Page

A page is the root component rendered on the server and hydrated on the app.
It must be exposed as a default export from the file.

It can also include a `metadata` function to provide metadata to the page.
This method receives the exact same props as the page itself.

### Build 

The build process of the front-end is separated between the client and server.
So two commands must be run :
- `vite build -c vite.config.js --outDir dist/client --ssrManifest` to build the client
- `vite build -c vite.config.js --outDir dist/server --ssr entry-server.ts` to build the server

These commands will build the files under the root directory of your client.
So if your client is inside `client`, the result we live in `client/dist/client` and `client/dist/server`.
This is perfectly normal and expected by the underlying plugin `@fastify/vite`.

## TODO

- Richer metadata system
- Testability